Updates for SDN 6 (#73)
neo4j-documentation/developer-guides: modules/ROOT/pages/spring-data-neo4j.adoc

= Spring Data Neo4j

> :doctype: book

Reviewer: not sure if this breaks things. @Mogztter ?

Reviewer 2: Not sure either but unless I'm missing something I don't think we need it here? So I would recommend to remove it (Asciidoctor will use the default document type: `article`).

Author: FWIW, I basically cherry-picked @meistermeier SDN/RX commit from a few months ago and replaced any references to RX with SDN 6.
Will remove, thanks for spotting this.

:page-level: Intermediate
:manualIncludeDir: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/spring-projects/spring-data-neo4j/master/
:author: Jennifer Reif
:programming-language: java
:category: drivers
:tags: spring, spring-data, SDN, reactive, app-development, applications
:description: For Java developers who use the Spring Framework or Spring Boot and want to take advantage of reactive development principles, this guide introduces Spring integration through the Spring Data Neo4j project.

> include::{manualIncludeDir}README.adoc[tags=properties]

Reviewer 3: I think this is not needed here. It is getting mentioned in the guide directly. So also the `manualIncludeDir` can get removed from the document properties above.

Author: removed

include::{manualIncludeDir}README.adoc[tags=properties]
// TODO: New release coming in October - this page will be rebuilt

> :neo4j-version: 4.2.0

Reviewer: should this be in the antora config ? like for the drivers?

Reviewer: https://github.com/neo4j-documentation/developer-guides/blob/publish/antora.yml#L13

Developers can take advantage of the reactive approach to process queries and return results.
This means that communication between the driver, and the database can be managed and adjusted dynamically according to data needs of the client.

Reactive programming principles allow the consuming side (applications and other systems) to specify the amount of data received within a certain window of time.
Neo4j's database driver will also maintain rate limits for requesting data from the server, providing flow control throughout the entire Neo4j stack.

No matter the volume of transactions or data (even during times of high activity), the system can maintain limits on how much it can send and receive at once based on available resources.
This prevents overloads and collapses or failures, as well as lost transmissions or later catch up loads during the downtime.

https://projectreactor.io/[Project Reactor^] is the core foundation of many implementations of reactive development, including https://spring.io/reactive[Spring's^].
Neo4j uses the Spring implementation of Project Reactor components to provide reactive support in related applications with the graph database.

> [#sdn-reactive]

Reviewer 3: Even though this is just an anchor could we stick with the non-reactive one ;)

== Spring Data Neo4j

The Spring Data Neo4j 6 is the new major version of the Spring Data Neo4j project.

> Its feature benefit is the capability and support for reactive transactions, though there are other improvements and additions, as well.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One of its feature benefit is the capability and support for reactive transactions, though there are other improvements and additions, as well.
```
Yes, the following example is reactive based but I don't see reactive support as the outstanding feature. I could imagine to have even _full immutable support_ / _record based mapping_ in this paragraph.

Author: immutability and record mentioned in fc88b3aa4bbae2a0dc163d11141ccee2a1dfc259

Author: ... and missing word added in 828f631 😅

We can see some of the most prominent features and changes in the SDN library listed below.

=== Features

* support for both imperative and reactive application development
* lightweight mapping with built-in OGM (object graph mapping) library
* immutable entities (for both Java and Kotlin languages)
* new Neo4j client and reactive client feature for template-over-driver architecture

SDN has full support for the well-known and understood imperative programming model (much like Spring Data JDBC or JPA).
It also provides full support for the newer reactive programming based on http://www.reactive-streams.org[Reactive Streams^], including https://spring.io/blog/2019/05/16/reactive-transactions-with-spring[reactive transactions^].
Both functionalities are included in the same binary.

[NOTE]
--
The reactive programming model requires a 4.0+ Neo4j instance (previous versions do not support reactive drivers) and reactive Spring on the application side.
--

One key difference of SDN 6 from the previous version of Spring Data Neo4j is that the OGM (object-graph mapping) layer is no longer a separate library.

> Instead, the Spring infrastructure now handles OGM's functionality.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Instead, the Spring Data infrastructure now handles OGM's functionality.
```

=== Other dependencies

If you are looking at the project in Github, you might notice that there are some other dependencies in the `pom.xml`.
A couple are for adding tests to the project, then one dependency for developer tools, and a couple more for test containers.

More information on the testing functionality can be found in the https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/neo4j/docs/current/reference/html/#sdn.testing[documentation^].

.Testing and dev tools dependencies
[source,xml,subs="verbatim,attributes"]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-test</artifactId>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.projectreactor</groupId>
    <artifactId>reactor-test</artifactId>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.testcontainers</groupId>
    <artifactId>junit-jupiter</artifactId>
    <version>{testcontainers-version}</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.testcontainers</groupId>
    <artifactId>neo4j</artifactId>
    <version>{testcontainers-version}</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>

> <dependency>
>     <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
>     <artifactId>spring-boot-devtools</artifactId>
>     <scope>runtime</scope>
>     <optional>true</optional>
> </dependency>
> <dependency>
>     <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
>     <artifactId>spring-boot-devtools</artifactId>
>     <scope>runtime</scope>
>     <optional>true</optional>
> </dependency>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-devtools</artifactId>
    <scope>runtime</scope>
    <optional>true</optional>
</dependency>
```
1. Duplication of the block.
2. Is this needed for the example? (Keeping it short)

Author: removed

----

[#adding-config]
== Adding configurations

Now, we need to add a few configurations to connect to the database.
We can find the `application.properties` file and configure what we need.

[source,properties]
----
spring.neo4j.uri=neo4j://localhost:7687
spring.neo4j.authentication.username=neo4j
spring.neo4j.authentication.password=secret
----

[NOTE]
--
You will need to adjust the password to whatever you set when you created your instance of Neo4j.
--

The first three lines are our Neo4j database URI and credentials.
The username and password you enter here should match for your individual database.
This is the bare minimum of what you need to connect to a Neo4j instance.

> We do not need to add any configuration for the driver with the SDN starter, as the repositories will be automatically enabled with it.

Reviewer 3: Please rephrase this. It is exactly the opposite: Those properties above configure the Neo4j driver (bean) SDN depends on not Spring Data Neo4j.

Author: s/any configuration/any other configuration/ ?

Reviewer 3: Ok with _any other configuration_ but somehow on the other side not really pleased that the configuration refers to the SDN starter. It should be the driver auto configuration.

Author: done in fc88b3aa4bbae2a0dc163d11141ccee2a1dfc259

Reviewer 3: _driver auto configuration_ not starter. The linked starter is ours (for Spring Boot 2.2/2.3) but the auto configuration is the magic ingredient for Spring Boot 2.4 (I think those we are targeting here) in Spring Boot itself.
Please no link and don't call it starter ;)

Author: oopsie, my bad

Author: fixed in 92df2ba154c2fbef831d3b90c7cdfd8c7c531e19

> === Other configurations

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== Logging configuration
```
..or if we stick with _other_, we should mention the static database selection `spring.data.neo4j.database`

Author: added database selection section

== Define a Spring Data repository

Our repositories in the application will extend a repository provided out-of-the-box called the `ReactiveNeo4jRepository`.

[NOTE]
--
If building an imperative application, you can extend the `Neo4jRepository`.
Also, while technically not prohibited, it is not recommended or supported to mix imperative and reactive database access in the same application.
--

Because our repositories are implementing reactive capabilities, we have access to the https://projectreactor.io/docs/core/release/reference/#mono[Mono^] and https://projectreactor.io/docs/core/release/reference/#flux[Flux^] reactive types from https://projectreactor.io/[Project Reactor^] for method returns.
The `Mono` type returns 0 or 1 results, while the `Flux` returns 0 or n results.
We would use a return type of `Mono` if we were expecting a single object back from the query and use a `Flux` type if we were expecting potentially multiple objects back from the query.

[#movie-repository]
=== Movie repository

[source,java]
----
public interface MovieRepository extends ReactiveNeo4jRepository<MovieEntity, String> {
	Mono<MovieEntity> findOneByTitle(String title);
}
----

> In this code block, we create a class type of `interface`, which is how Spring provides flexibility to interact with various data stores.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this code block, we create an `interface`, which is how Spring provides flexibility to interact with various data stores.
```
Or skip / merge this sentence with the following one because they both express about the same.

Author: further simplified in 2debe2837af6704d4e07e702cec53ba17f9da127

We can hit each of these endpoints shown below and verify everything is working as expected.

=== Interacting from a command line

Here is the syntax for each of the endpoints from a command line:

* `localhost:8080/movies` for getMovies() method

[source,bash]
----
curl http://localhost:8080/movies
----

Results: retrieve all movies in our database

* `localhost:8080/movies <movieToUpdateOrCreate>` for createOrUpdateMovie() method

[source,bash]
----
curl -X "PUT" "http://localhost:8080/movies" \
     -H 'Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8' \
     -d $'{
  "title": "Aeon Flux",
  "description": "Reactive is the new cool"
}'
----

Results: create new movie `Aeon Flux` in our database

* `localhost:8080/movies/by-title` for byTitle() method

[source,bash]
----
curl http://localhost:8080/movies/by-title\?title\=Aeon%20Flux
----

Results: retrieve information about specific movie (in this query, `Aeon Flux`)

* `localhost:8080/movies/\{id\}` for delete() method

[source,bash]
----
curl -X DELETE http://localhost:8080/movies/847
----

Results: delete the movie using its id (in this case, the `Aeon Flux` movie)

[#sdn-resources]
== Resources

> * Documentation: https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/neo4j/docs/current/reference/[SDN docs^]

Reviewer: can we keep the style above that we have on the other pages

> | icon:play-circle[] Examples |https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-data-neo4j[SDN Example from Spring^], https://github.com/neo4j-examples?q=spring[Spring Data Neo4j^]

Reviewer 3: We should cherry-pick the examples here. E.g. the migration example would not get matched by the query. Also we get in old SDN 5 examples.
